title: BikeSim
template: bard
main_content:
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/images/company/logos/mechanical_simulation/bikesim_splash.png
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>BikeSim delivers the most accurate, detailed, and efficient methods for simulating the performance of two- and three-wheeled vehicles. With more than twenty years of real-world validation, BikeSim is universally the preferred tool for analyzing motorcycle dynamics, developing active controllers, calculating overall system performance, and engineering next generation active safety systems.</p><p>Current version:{{ latest_versions:version_bikesim }}</p><p>With manufacturers facing compressed product release cycles, BikeSim provides an intuitive set of tools for engineers to quickly evaluate complete motorcycles, sub-components, and active controllers in complex, simulated driving environments. As more companies and motorsports organizations embrace simulation based engineering, BikeSim provides a system- based modeling approach to help users focus on their area of expertise while keeping the rest of the simulation environment constant.</p><h2>BikeSim Advantages</h2><p>CarSim, TruckSim, and BikeSim are used worldwide by over 110 OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers and over 200 universities and government research labs. Here are some reasons why so many engineers have selected BikeSim:</p><ol><li>BikeSim is a standalone application. It does not require any other software to perform simulations.</li><li>BikeSim has a standard interface to MATLAB/Simulink.</li><li>BikeSim is used extensively by seven of the largest motorcycle OEMs.</li><li>BikeSim allows users to build complex scenarios and test event sequences.</li><li>BikeSim can scale:<ol><br><li>Software-in-the-loop</li><li>Model-in-the-loop</li><li>Hardware-in-the-loop</li></ol></li><li>BikeSim has an intuitive user interface and powerful analysis tools (see for the video in the sidebar).</li><li>BikeSim supports vehicle sensors and interactive traffic for V2V and ADAS development.</li><li>BikeSim includes Linearization capabilities that can be used with MATLAB to generate Eignevalues, root locus plots, frequency-response plots, etc.</li><li>BikeSim includes over 1900 pages of indexed documentation covering all aspects of the software.</li><li>BikeSim includes numerous example vehicles, roads, and procedures to assist first-time users.</li><li>BikeSim is economical in comparison to other commercial vehicle dynamics software tools.</li></ol><h3>&nbsp;VehicleSim Technology</h3><p>CarSim, BikeSim, and TruckSim all use technology first introduced in 1990 and developed continuously since then. Efficient parametric math models reproduce system-level vehicle dynamics behavior, under the control of a GUI intended for engineers who need to evaluate vehicle/controller behavior without spending weeks of training. VehicleSim products also include the VS Visualizer tool for viewing simulations with plots and photo-realistic animation.</p><p>In addition to the built-in capabilities of the BikeSim models, the VehicleSim software tools include methods to extend the capabilities with user-defined programs and/or connections to third-party software:</p><ol><li>Commercial simulation environments Simulink (the MathWorks), LabVIEW (National Instruments), and ASCET (ETAS).</li><li>Simulation environents that support the Functional Mockup Interface (FMI); BikeSim can automatically generate Functional Mockup Units (FMUs) that work in many external software environments.</li><li>VS Commands (the built-in scripting language).</li><li>Run with custom programs (MATLAB, Visual Basic, C/C++) using VS API (application program interface).</li><li>Run with remote control via Windows COM.</li><li>Support of HIL (hardware in the loop) testing on major RT (real time) platforms.</li></ol><p>See the links in the sidebar for more information about the technology and simulation features available in BikeSim.</p>'
has_sidebar: false
fieldset: bard_page
id: 07499fc8-de13-40fe-a421-1d37eaac076b
