---
title: 'ISO Information'
id: db1cf0b9-d9f2-4042-8cc3-d12b09997058
---
## Version and Revision Numbers
Starting with 2016.0, VS programs and installers have an associated version based on calendar year (e.g., 2016.0), a revision number (e.g., r19252), and a date. The revision number is machine-generated by version-control software. It is typical that  the installer, the GUI, and the math models will have identical versions but different dates and revision numbers. The installer is always the last made, so it will usually have a higher revision number than the other parts.  
## EXE, ZIP, and ISO Formats
Software downloads are provided using three types of files: installer programs (EXE), ZIP archives, and ISO CD images.
### <strong> EXE Installer Files </strong>
An installation CD for the Windows version of a VS product  has a self-contained installer program (e.g., <code>Setup_CarSim_2016.exe</code>) with all options needed for installing the software. If you do not need a physical backup of the full CD, then this download provides the quickest way to perform your installation.
### <strong> ZIP Archive Files </strong>
Each ZIP file that can be downloaded contains one or more files. The ZIP format is supported directly by Windows OS  (double-click on the ZIP file icon in the file explorer to view the contents.)  

Always extract the files from the ZIP archive before trying to use them. For example, never run an installer EXE from within the ZIP.
### <strong>ISO Image Files </strong>
An ISO image is an archive file that provides a complete copy of a physical CD. It is used to burn a physical CD, or can be mounted as a virtual CD. To do this, you need an ISO utility program on your Windows machine such as BurnCDCC, a freeware ISO burning software utility [available here](http://www.terabyteunlimited.com/utilities.html)